Speaker 1: You may knock and enter the room.  Come in.  Hi Miss Alexander.  Hi.  Hi, my name is Brittany and I'm a medical student working with Dr.  Parrot today.  Try to get this all rubbed in.  It's nice to meet you.  

Speaker 0: Nice to meet you.  

Speaker 1: So she has sent me in just to ask you some questions and do a brief physical exam and then I will step back out and talk to her and then she'll be in behind me.  Is that okay?  

Speaker 0: Yeah, that's fine.  

Speaker 1: Great.  So what brings you in today?  

Speaker 0: I've been having pretty bad neck pain.  

Speaker 1: Oh goodness.  Well I'm glad you came in so we can take a look and make sure there's nothing going on.  So how long has this been going on?  

Speaker 0: Probably about two days.  Okay.  

Speaker 1: Did anything happen a couple days ago out of the ordinary?  

Speaker 0: Well I was in a small car accident.  Okay.  

Speaker 1: Must have been scary.  

Speaker 0: Yeah.  What happened?  I was at a stoplight and the person behind me rear-ended me.  We weren't going very fast though.  I think he was maybe going five or ten miles an hour.  

Speaker 1: And were you wearing your seat belt at the time?  

Speaker 0: Yeah.  

Speaker 1: And so you said you didn't go to the hospital or anything because you didn't feel any pain initially?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: So when exactly did the pain start?  About how many hours after the accident?  

Speaker 0: I would probably say maybe four to six hours after.  I think maybe I was just in shock at first and so I didn't really feel any pain or anything.  

Speaker 1: And where is it bothering you specifically?  Can you pinpoint a specific area on your neck?  

Speaker 0: It's mostly just the back of my neck and on the sides of my neck.  

Speaker 1: Both sides?  Yes.  And did you hear any pops or have any numbness or tingling that occurred during the accident?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: And is there anything that's making the pain worse?  

Speaker 0: Mostly when I bend my head forward and try to turn it to the left, it kind of...  

Speaker 1: It's really tight.  Anything you've noticed that's helping it?  

Speaker 0: I took some ibuprofen and I put ice.  on the back of my neck and that helped a little bit but it still hurts.  

Speaker 1: It still hurts.  And how much ibuprofen are you taking?  

Speaker 0: I took two tablets every six hours or so since then.  

Speaker 1: I'm just taking some notes so that way when I go talk to Dr.  Parrott I can be thorough and let her know everything you're telling me.  So it's worse whenever you're bending forward and to the side, to the left.  

Speaker 0: Is that correct?  Yes.  Alright.  And can you describe the pain to me?  It just feels like a tight, kind of dull pain.  

Speaker 1: Okay.  So tight and dull.  And is this pain radiating or moving anywhere?  

Speaker 0: Not really, it just goes... up and down the back of my neck.  

Speaker 1: So nothing coming down into the arms?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: And on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the worst pain, where would you say you're at?  

Speaker 0: Probably around a 6 or a 7 out of 10, especially when I try and bend forward and turn my head.  

Speaker 1: And is it a constant pain?  Yes.  But it'll get worse whenever you bend forward and turn to the left.  And would you say since the accident, since that evening, has it been constant, or is it getting worse, better?  What would you say?  

Speaker 0: It feels like it's getting worse, but I don't know if that's because the ibuprofen's not working.  

Speaker 1: Well, I'm glad you came in.  The over-the-counter stuff's not working, and we can do an exam and make sure there's nothing we're missing.  possibly do some osteopathic treatments and we'll get on to that later, okay?  

Speaker 0: Okay.  

Speaker 1: And as far as your past medical history, have you ever had a neck injury before?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: So you've never had problems with your neck?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: Okay, that's good to know.  And any medical conditions that you're currently being treated for or that you've ever been treated for?  

Speaker 0: I have asthma.  I take medicine for that.  

Speaker 1: Okay.  

Speaker 0: That's about it.  

Speaker 1: Ever been hospitalized?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: Ever had any surgeries?  

Speaker 0: I had my tonsils taken out when I was a kid.  I think I was probably nine.  Okay.  

Speaker 1: And as far as medications, you said you take the over-the-counter ibuprofen and then you take something for asthma.  What do you take for your asthma?  

Speaker 0: I take albuterol.  

Speaker 1: Do you just take that as needed?  And do you take any other medications?  

Speaker 0: I take a loratadine or a claritin for allergies.  Okay.  

Speaker 1: What about any herbal supplements, vitamins?  

Speaker 0: I take a multivitamin.  

Speaker 1: And I always like to ask all my patients, any recreational drug use?  

Speaker 0: No, none.  

Speaker 1: And are you allergic to any medication?  

Speaker 0: I am.  I'm allergic to penicillin.  

Speaker 1: And what happens when you take penicillin?  

Speaker 0: I break out in a rash.  

Speaker 1: Well, we'd be sure never to give you penicillin for anything.  And as far as family history, any medical conditions in the family with your mom and dad?  

Speaker 0: My mom... She's pretty healthy.  She has diabetes though, and it's pretty under control.  My dad has high cholesterol, but he takes medicine for that.  

Speaker 1: Any brothers or sisters?  

Speaker 0: I have a brother and he's healthy.  He doesn't have any conditions or anything.  

Speaker 1: And no one's ever had problems with joints or arthritis?  

Speaker 0: No.  

Speaker 1: Great.  And I always like to just get an overview of my patients, kind of get to know them a little better.  What do you do for a living?  

Speaker 0: I'm an administrative assistant.  Oh, where do you work?  I work for the Fish and Wildlife Services.  

Speaker 1: Oh, wow.  That must be fun.  Yeah.  You've been doing it for a while?  

Speaker 0: Yeah, for a few years.  

Speaker 1: Stressful or pretty?  

Speaker 0: It's not very stressful at all.  

Speaker 1: That's good.  And are you married?  

Speaker 0: I am.  Congratulations.  Thanks.  

Speaker 1: Do you have any children?  

Speaker 0: No, not yet.  No children?  No.  

Speaker 1: Alright.  And so do you have hobbies that you like to do?  

Speaker 0: I do.  I like to cook and I like to garden.  It's been kind of difficult to garden because I can't lean forward as much for the past two days.  

Speaker 1: Yeah, it can be frustrating when you can't do the things you enjoy.  Yeah.  Any tobacco use?  

Speaker 0: I smoke probably maybe half a pack a day if that.  

Speaker 1: And how long have you been smoking?  

Speaker 0: Oh I want to say maybe seven years or so.  

Speaker 1: Okay.  Any alcohol use?  

Speaker 0: Occasional.  I'll have a glass of wine with dinner maybe once a week.  

Speaker 1: Okay.  Well, I believe I got all the information I needed from you.  So we're gonna go ahead and move on to the physical exam portion.  So what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna have you take a seat up here.  All right, for the physical exam, I'm gonna go ahead and listen to your heart and lungs and make sure those sound nice and clear.  So I'm just gonna slide this down and just breathe normal.  And go and take a big deep breath.  

Speaker 0: And again.  Again.  

Speaker 1: And last one.  Good.  And so I'm just gonna do a structural exam here and palpate down your spine.  Let me know if there's anything that's tender.  

Speaker 0: It's tender everywhere.  

Speaker 1: Everywhere, okay.  I'm gonna work my way down.  And I want to check the range of motion in your neck.  So what I want you to do is try to put your chin down to your chest.  

Speaker 0: It's about as far as I can go.  

Speaker 1: And then looking up to the ceiling.  Pretty stiff.  OK.  And what about looking, turning and looking over to this shoulder?  OK.  All right.  And turn and look to that shoulder for me.  

Speaker 0: Right there.  

Speaker 1: And then ear to your shoulder.  Trying to touch your ear over to your shoulder.  And then ear to the other shoulder.  

Speaker 0: That's as far as I can go.  Alright.  And I'm going to go ahead and check just some reflexes.  

Speaker 1: This will kind of tell me if there's any nerves that are involved.  So just relax your arm.  And we're going to rest your arm right here on your lap.  And just relax.  And I'm gonna do the same thing on this arm.  So just relax your arm.  And just relax.  And then last one, just let your arm hang.  And now I'm gonna test and see how strong you are.  So place your arms like this for me, and don't let me move your arms.  Good.  And arms up, and don't let me push them.  Good.  And fingers out for me.  Don't let me squeeze them.  And fingers together and try to push them out.  Okay.  All right.  If it's okay with you, as an osteopathic student, we've learned some treatments.  So I'm going to do some soft tissue to try and break up some of this tension that you're having.  Okay.  If that sounds okay.  Yeah.  Okay.  I don't want to hurt too bad.  No, it's not going to hurt.  And if there's any pain, I want you to let me know.  And so I'm just going to do Just very gentle, it's called myofascial.  And just kind of slowly up.  And if this is something that you do get some relief from after this evening, then you can come back and we can be a little more aggressive.  But since the car accident was just two days ago, I want to be very gentle.  I'm just going to hold this right here.  All those muscles that are tight and spasming right now attach right up where my fingers are at, so I'm just trying to get them to relax and loosen.  

Speaker 0: So this is supposed to relax all the muscles in your neck?  

Speaker 1: Uh-huh, yep.  I think that'll be enough for today.  I don't want to do too much since it was such an acute injury.  So I'm going to go ahead and help you up.  And then I'm going to go ahead and summarize everything that you told me from earlier, if that's okay.  Would you prefer sitting back down in the chair?  Sure.  Okay, so you started having some neck pain two days ago after a motor vehicle accident.  You were rear-ended, but you were wearing your seat belt.  You didn't hear any pop or have any numbness or tingling that occurred, and it's just been real tight for the past two days, real constant, but it's worse whenever you flex your head down or turn to the left.  Is that correct?  Yes.  And as far as your past medical history, you just have asthma and you're taking some medication for that.  Okay.  And you're not allergic to anything.  

Speaker 0: Penicillin.  

Speaker 1: Excuse me.  Yes, that's right.  You are allergic to penicillin.  All right.  What I will do is I will go talk to Dr.  Parrot and then we will be back in to put together a treatment option plan for you.  Okay.  Any other questions or concerns you have for me today?  

Speaker 0: No, I don't think so.  I just want to feel better.  

Speaker 1: Alright, well that is our main goal, so I'm glad you came in today.  Great.  Thank you.  

Speaker 0: Thank you.  